# Field Trip, April 9, 2024

Our goal today was to explore print management technology including software (EPI's Fiery, KODAK PRINERGY Business Solutions, etc.) and hardware (various). Our plan was to do this at the BC Institute of Technology in Burnaby. We met a lot of obstacles, but still had a great time! We intended to explore both Campus Print and Copy and the GCOM Print Production Shop. Unfortunately, GCOM was unavailable this time, and Print Manager (Tajinder) had to leave early for personal reasons. We were still able to explore Campus Print & Copy, but we had some limitations with me leading the tour, as I am not approved to send print files through our software. 

All of these challenges meant our print production tour was restricted to about 30 minutes of content, and we had a three-hour class scheduled there. To make it a more engaging experience, we did some hands-on work with various print technology. I booked Council Chambers (a bright large meeting room in the same building) and arranged to have a variety of tools and materials available. The students experimented with linocutting, block printing, coil binding, cyanotype printing, sewn binding, bookmark making, and various other small tools (corner cutting, etc.). It was a fun and full afternoon, and everyone went home with at least one finished project to keep. 

It was fun! In hindsight, I would pre-cut the paper to size for the coil-bound booklets (as that took a long time to do) and allow them to punch the binding holes and complete that process. I also would prepare the paper for bookmarks, and ensure there were enough tools for everyone to work on all projects, instead of just 1-2 copies of each one. 
